# Impact-Evaluation-Project

### The purpose of this project is to examine the POCSO Act’s role in changing policies and gender-based violence, with a specific focus on children in India. The project includes an overview of different types of sexual violence and its impact on children, including both physical and mental harm, and added risks for violence against children from diverse perpetrators, including through harmful practices. One of the major obstacles to stopping gender-based violence against children is the implementation of policies.

### India has one of the largest populations of children in the world. The Parliament of India passed the "Protection of Children Against Sexual Offenses Bill (POCSO) in 2012, which aims to protect children from offenses of sexual assault, sexual harassment, and pornography (POCSO Act India). However, topics related to child sexual abuse are often sensitive and thus stay undiscussed due to social and historical discourse. After the Child Sexual Abuse Laws have been enacted, more documents and data are available to analyze the prevention of children from sexual violence while providing safeguards for children during the juridical process. The implementation stays challenging in the Indian context. The efficacy of law measurement is also difficult due to the short time after the law’s enactment.

### This project aims to collect data from India’s Central Bank and National Crime Records Bureau to analyze the impact of the POCSO Act. Additionally, identifying important variables that correlate with crime records to support implementation tools is also included.
